id,title,authors,published,year,category,summary,count_words
http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6323v1,Localized Algorithm of Community Detection on Large-Scale Decentralized Social Networks,"Pili Hu, Wing Cheong Lau",2012-12-27T07:59:01Z,2012,cs.SI,"Despite the overwhelming success of the existing Social Networking Services (SNS), their centralized ownership and control have led to serious concerns in user privacy, censorship vulnerability and operational robustness of these services. To overcome these limitations, Distributed Social Networks (DSN) have recently been proposed and implemented. Under these new DSN architectures, no single party possesses the full knowledge of the entire social network. While this approach solves the above problems, the lack of global knowledge for the DSN nodes makes it much more challenging to support some common but critical SNS services like friends discovery and community detection. In this paper, we tackle the problem of community detection for a given user under the constraint of limited local topology information as imposed by common DSN architectures. By considering the Personalized Page Rank (PPR) approach as an ink spilling process, we justify its applicability for decentralized community detection using limited local topology information.Our proposed PPR-based solution has a wide range of applications such as friends recommendation, targeted advertisement, automated social relationship labeling and sybil defense. Using data collected from a large-scale SNS in practice, we demonstrate our adapted version of PPR can significantly outperform the basic PR as well as two other commonly used heuristics. The inclusion of a few manually labeled friends in the Escape Vector (EV) can boost the performance considerably (64.97% relative improvement in terms of Area Under the ROC Curve (AUC)).",234
http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.09158v1,The interplay between system identification and machine learning,Gianluigi Pillonetto,2016-12-29T14:32:51Z,2016,eess.SY,"Learning from examples is one of the key problems in science and engineering. It deals with function reconstruction from a finite set of direct and noisy samples. Regularization in reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces (RKHSs) is widely used to solve this task and includes powerful estimators such as regularization networks. Recent achievements include the proof of the statistical consistency of these kernel- based approaches. Parallel to this, many different system identification techniques have been developed but the interaction with machine learning does not appear so strong yet. One reason is that the RKHSs usually employed in machine learning do not embed the information available on dynamic systems, e.g. BIBO stability. In addition, in system identification the independent data assumptions routinely adopted in machine learning are never satisfied in practice. This paper provides new results which strengthen the connection between system identification and machine learning. Our starting point is the introduction of RKHSs of dynamic systems. They contain functionals over spaces defined by system inputs and allow to interpret system identification as learning from examples. In both linear and nonlinear settings, it is shown that this perspective permits to derive in a relatively simple way conditions on RKHS stability (i.e. the property of containing only BIBO stable systems or predictors), also facilitating the design of new kernels for system identification. Furthermore, we prove the convergence of the regularized estimator to the optimal predictor under conditions typical of dynamic systems.",237
http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6235v2,Real and Complex Monotone Communication Games,"Gesualdo Scutari, Francisco Facchinei, Jong-Shi Pang, Daniel P. Palomar",2012-12-26T19:43:46Z,2012,cs.GT,"Noncooperative game-theoretic tools have been increasingly used to study many important resource allocation problems in communications, networking, smart grids, and portfolio optimization. In this paper, we consider a general class of convex Nash Equilibrium Problems (NEPs), where each player aims to solve an arbitrary smooth convex optimization problem. Differently from most of current works, we do not assume any specific structure for the players' problems, and we allow the optimization variables of the players to be matrices in the complex domain. Our main contribution is the design of a novel class of distributed (asynchronous) best-response- algorithms suitable for solving the proposed NEPs, even in the presence of multiple solutions. The new methods, whose convergence analysis is based on Variational Inequality (VI) techniques, can select, among all the equilibria of a game, those that optimize a given performance criterion, at the cost of limited signaling among the players. This is a major departure from existing best-response algorithms, whose convergence conditions imply the uniqueness of the NE. Some of our results hinge on the use of VI problems directly in the complex domain; the study of these new kind of VIs also represents a noteworthy innovative contribution. We then apply the developed methods to solve some new generalizations of SISO and MIMO games in cognitive radios and femtocell systems, showing a considerable performance improvement over classical pure noncooperative schemes.",227
http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00082v1,A computational investigation of the relationships between single-neuron and network dynamics in the cerebral cortex,Stefano Cavallari,2016-12-31T09:57:03Z,2016,q-bio.NC,"Functions of brain areas in complex animals are believed to rely on the dynamics of networks of neurons rather than on single neurons. On the other hand, the network dynamics reflect and arise from the integration and coordination of the activity of populations of single neurons. Understanding how single-neurons and neural-circuits dynamics complement each other to produce brain functions is thus of paramount importance. LFPs and EEGs are good indicators of the dynamics of mesoscopic and macroscopic populations of neurons, while microscopic-level activities can be documented by measuring the membrane potential, the synaptic currents or the spiking activity of individual neurons. In this thesis we develop mathematical modelling and mathematical analysis tools that can help the interpretation of joint measures of neural activity at microscopic and mesoscopic or macroscopic scales. In particular, we develop network models of recurrent cortical circuits that can clarify the impact of several aspects of single-neuron (i.e., microscopic-level) dynamics on the activity of the whole neural population (as measured by LFP). We then develop statistical tools to characterize the relationship between the action potential firing of single neurons and mass signals. We apply these latter analysis techniques to joint recordings of the firing activity of individual cell-type identified neurons and mesoscopic (i.e., LFP) and macroscopic (i.e., EEG) signals in the mouse neocortex. We identified several general aspects of the relationship between cell-specific neural firing and mass circuit activity, providing for example general and robust mathematical rules which infer single-neuron firing activity from mass measures such as the LFP and the EEG.",255
http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4757v1,A Thoracic Mechanism of Mild Traumatic Brain Injury Due to Blast Pressure Waves,"Amy Courtney, Michael Courtney",2008-12-27T17:29:41Z,2008,physics.med-ph,"The mechanisms by which blast pressure waves cause mild to moderate traumatic brain injury (mTBI) are an open question. Possibilities include acceleration of the head, direct passage of the blast wave via the cranium, and propagation of the blast wave to the brain via a thoracic mechanism. The hypothesis that the blast pressure wave reaches the brain via a thoracic mechanism is considered in light of ballistic and blast pressure wave research. Ballistic pressure waves, caused by penetrating ballistic projectiles or ballistic impacts to body armor, can only reach the brain via an internal mechanism and have been shown to cause cerebral effects. Similar effects have been documented when a blast pressure wave has been applied to the whole body or focused on the thorax in animal models. While vagotomy reduces apnea and bradycardia due to ballistic or blast pressure waves, it does not eliminate neural damage in the brain, suggesting that the pressure wave directly affects the brain cells via a thoracic mechanism. An experiment is proposed which isolates the thoracic mechanism from cranial mechanisms of mTBI due to blast wave exposure. Results have implications for evaluating risk of mTBI due to blast exposure and for developing effective protection.",200
http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6808v1,Early Warning Analysis for Social Diffusion Events,"Richard Colbaugh, Kristin Glass",2012-12-31T02:27:17Z,2012,cs.SI,"There is considerable interest in developing predictive capabilities for social diffusion processes, for instance to permit early identification of emerging contentious situations, rapid detection of disease outbreaks, or accurate forecasting of the ultimate reach of potentially viral ideas or behaviors. This paper proposes a new approach to this predictive analytics problem, in which analysis of meso-scale network dynamics is leveraged to generate useful predictions for complex social phenomena. We begin by deriving a stochastic hybrid dynamical systems (S-HDS) model for diffusion processes taking place over social networks with realistic topologies; this modeling approach is inspired by recent work in biology demonstrating that S-HDS offer a useful mathematical formalism with which to represent complex, multi-scale biological network dynamics. We then perform formal stochastic reachability analysis with this S-HDS model and conclude that the outcomes of social diffusion processes may depend crucially upon the way the early dynamics of the process interacts with the underlying network's community structure and core-periphery structure. This theoretical finding provides the foundations for developing a machine learning algorithm that enables accurate early warning analysis for social diffusion events. The utility of the warning algorithm, and the power of network-based predictive metrics, are demonstrated through an empirical investigation of the propagation of political memes over social media networks. Additionally, we illustrate the potential of the approach for security informatics applications through case studies involving early warning analysis of large-scale protests events and politically-motivated cyber attacks.",237
http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5720v2,Hierarchical Graphical Models for Multigroup Shape Analysis using Expectation Maximization with Sampling in Kendall's Shape Space,"Yen-Yun Yu, P. Thomas Fletcher, Suyash P. Awate",2012-12-22T20:27:22Z,2012,cs.CV,"This paper proposes a novel framework for multi-group shape analysis relying on a hierarchical graphical statistical model on shapes within a population.The framework represents individual shapes as point setsmodulo translation, rotation, and scale, following the notion in Kendall shape space.While individual shapes are derived from their group shape model, each group shape model is derived from a single population shape model. The hierarchical model follows the natural organization of population data and the top level in the hierarchy provides a common frame of reference for multigroup shape analysis, e.g. classification and hypothesis testing. Unlike typical shape-modeling approaches, the proposed model is a generative model that defines a joint distribution of object-boundary data and the shape-model variables. Furthermore, it naturally enforces optimal correspondences during the process of model fitting and thereby subsumes the so-called correspondence problem. The proposed inference scheme employs an expectation maximization (EM) algorithm that treats the individual and group shape variables as hidden random variables and integrates them out before estimating the parameters (population mean and variance and the group variances). The underpinning of the EM algorithm is the sampling of pointsets, in Kendall shape space, from their posterior distribution, for which we exploit a highly-efficient scheme based on Hamiltonian Monte Carlo simulation. Experiments in this paper use the fitted hierarchical model to perform (1) hypothesis testing for comparison between pairs of groups using permutation testing and (2) classification for image retrieval. The paper validates the proposed framework on simulated data and demonstrates results on real data.",249
http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00169v4,Vertical stratification of forest canopy for segmentation of under-story trees within small-footprint airborne LiDAR point clouds,"Hamid Hamraz, Marco A. Contreras, Jun Zhang",2016-12-31T21:53:09Z,2016,cs.CV,"Airborne LiDAR point cloud representing a forest contains 3D data, from which vertical stand structure even of understory layers can be derived. This paper presents a tree segmentation approach for multi-story stands that stratifies the point cloud to canopy layers and segments individual tree crowns within each layer using a digital surface model based tree segmentation method. The novelty of the approach is the stratification procedure that separates the point cloud to an overstory and multiple understory tree canopy layers by analyzing vertical distributions of LiDAR points within overlapping locales. The procedure does not make a priori assumptions about the shape and size of the tree crowns and can, independent of the tree segmentation method, be utilized to vertically stratify tree crowns of forest canopies. We applied the proposed approach to the University of Kentucky Robinson Forest - a natural deciduous forest with complex and highly variable terrain and vegetation structure. The segmentation results showed that using the stratification procedure strongly improved detecting understory trees (from 46% to 68%) at the cost of introducing a fair number of over-segmented understory trees (increased from 1% to 16%), while barely affecting the overall segmentation quality of overstory trees. Results of vertical stratification of the canopy showed that the point density of understory canopy layers were suboptimal for performing a reasonable tree segmentation, suggesting that acquiring denser LiDAR point clouds would allow more improvements in segmenting understory trees. As shown by inspecting correlations of the results with forest structure, the segmentation approach is applicable to a variety of forest types.",257
http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5270v2,HeII emitters in the VIMOS VLT Deep Survey: PopIII star formation or peculiar stellar populations in galaxies at 2<z<4.6?,"P. Cassata, O. Le Fevre, S. Charlot, T. Contini, O. Cucciati, B. Garilli, G. Zamorani, C. Adami, S. Bardelli, V. Le Brun, B. Lemaux, D. Maccagni, A. Pollo, L. Pozzetti, L. Tresse, D. Vergani, A. Zanichelli, E. Zucca",2012-12-20T21:08:26Z,2012,astro-ph.CO,"The aim of this work is to identify HeII emitters at 2<z<4.6 and to constrain the source of the hard ionizing continuum that powers the HeII emission. We have assembled a sample of 277 galaxies with a high quality spectroscopic redshift at 2<z<4.6 from the VVDS survey, and we have identified 39 HeII1640A emitters. We study their spectral properties, measuring the fluxes, equivalent widths (EW) and FWHM for most relevant lines. About 10% of galaxies at z~3 show HeII in emission, with rest frame equivalent widths EW0~1-7A, equally distributed between galaxies with Lya in emission or in absorption. We find 11 high-quality HeII emitters with unresolved HeII line (FWHM_0<1200km/s), 13 high-quality emitters with broad He II emission (FWHM_0>1200km/s), 3 AGN, and an additional 12 possible HeII emitters. The properties of the individual broad emitters are in agreement with expectations from a W-R model. On the contrary, the properties of the narrow emitters are not compatible with such model, neither with predictions of gravitational cooling radiation produced by gas accretion. Rather, we find that the EW of the narrow HeII line emitters are in agreement with expectations for a PopIII star formation, if the episode of star formation is continuous, and we calculate that a PopIII SFR of 0.1-10 Mo yr-1 only is enough to sustain the observed HeII flux. We conclude that narrow HeII emitters are either powered by the ionizing flux from a stellar population rare at z~0 but much more common at z~3, or by PopIII star formation. As proposed by Tornatore et al. (2007), incomplete ISM mixing may leave some small pockets of pristine gas at the periphery of galaxies from which PopIII may form, even down to z~2 or lower. If this interpretation is correct, we measure at z~3 a SFRD in PopIII stars of 10^6Mo yr^-1 Mpc^-3 qualitatively comparable to the value predicted by Tornatore et al. (2007).",313
http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3682v1,Submillimeter Continuum Properties of Cold Dust in the Inner Disk and Outflows of M82,"Lerothodi L. Leeuw, E. Ian Robson",2008-12-18T23:39:38Z,2008,astro-ph,"Deep submillimeter (submm) continuum imaging observations of the starburst galaxy M82 are presented at 350, 450, 750 and 850 micron wavelengths, that were undertaken with the Submillimetre Common-User Bolometer Array (SCUBA) on the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope in Hawaii. The presented maps include a co-addition of submm data mined from the SCUBA Data Archive. The co-added data produce the deepest submm continuum maps yet of M82, in which low-level 850 micron continuum has been detected out to 1.5kpc, at least 10% farther in radius than any previously published submm detections of this galaxy. The overall submm morphology and spatial spectral energy distribution of M82 have a general north-south asymmetry consistent with H-alpha and X-ray winds, supporting the association of the extended continuum with outflows of dust grains from the disk into the halo. The new data raise interesting points about the origin and structure of the submm emission in the inner disk of M82. In particular, SCUBA short wavelength evidence of submm continuum peaks that are asymmetrically distributed along the galactic disk suggests the inner-disk emission is re-radiation from dust concentrations along a bar (or perhaps a spiral) rather than edges of a dust torus, as is commonly assumed. Higher resolution submm interferometery data from the Smithsonian Submillimeter Array and later Atacama Large Millimeter Array should spatially resolve and further constrain the reported dust emission structures in M82.",228
http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6098v1,Evaluation of the mean cycle time in stochastic discrete event dynamic systems,Nikolai Krivulin,2012-12-25T23:18:15Z,2012,math.OC,"We consider stochastic discrete event dynamic systems that have time evolution represented with two-dimensional state vectors through a vector equation that is linear in terms of an idempotent semiring. The state transitions are governed by second-order random matrices that are assumed to be independent and identically distributed. The problem of interest is to evaluate the mean growth rate of state vector, which is also referred to as the mean cycle time of the system, under various assumptions on the matrix entries. We give an overview of early results including a solution for systems determined by matrices with independent entries having a common exponential distribution. It is shown how to extend the result to the cases when the entries have different exponential distributions and when some of the entries are replaced by zero. Finally, the mean cycle time is calculated for systems with matrices that have one random entry, whereas the other entries in the matrices can be arbitrary nonnegative and zero constants. The random entry is always assumed to have exponential distribution except for one case of a matrix with zero row when the particular form of the matrix makes it possible to obtain a solution that does not rely on exponential distribution assumptions.",204
http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00166v1,Data-Driven Forecast of Dengue Outbreaks in Brazil: A Critical Assessment of Climate Conditions for Different Capitals,"Lucas Stolerman, Pedro Maia, J. Nathan Kutz",2016-12-31T20:55:47Z,2016,q-bio.QM,"Local climate conditions play a major role in the development of the mosquito population responsible for transmitting Dengue Fever. Since the {\em Aedes Aegypti} mosquito is also a primary vector for the recent Zika and Chikungunya epidemics across the Americas, a detailed monitoring of periods with favorable climate conditions for mosquito profusion may improve the timing of vector-control efforts and other urgent public health strategies. We apply dimensionality reduction techniques and machine-learning algorithms to climate time series data and analyze their connection to the occurrence of Dengue outbreaks for seven major cities in Brazil. Specifically, we have identified two key variables and a period during the annual cycle that are highly predictive of epidemic outbreaks. The key variables are the frequency of precipitation and temperature during an approximately two month window of the winter season preceding the outbreak. Thus simple climate signatures may be influencing Dengue outbreaks even months before their occurrence. Some of the more challenging datasets required usage of compressive-sensing procedures to estimate missing entries for temperature and precipitation records. Our results indicate that each Brazilian capital considered has a unique frequency of precipitation and temperature signature in the winter preceding a Dengue outbreak. Such climate contributions on vector populations are key factors in dengue dynamics which could lead to more accurate prediction models and early warning systems. Finally, we show that critical temperature and precipitation signatures may vary significantly from city to city, suggesting that the interplay between climate variables and dengue outbreaks is more complex than generally appreciated.",252
http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0138v2,Time-Varying Networks: Recovering Temporally Rewiring Genetic Networks During the Life Cycle of Drosophila melanogaster,"Amr Ahmed, Le Song, Eric P. Xing",2008-12-31T20:42:52Z,2008,q-bio.MN,"Due to the dynamic nature of biological systems, biological networks underlying temporal process such as the development of {\it Drosophila melanogaster} can exhibit significant topological changes to facilitate dynamic regulatory functions. Thus it is essential to develop methodologies that capture the temporal evolution of networks, which make it possible to study the driving forces underlying dynamic rewiring of gene regulation circuity, and to predict future network structures. Using a new machine learning method called Tesla, which builds on a novel temporal logistic regression technique, we report the first successful genome-wide reverse-engineering of the latent sequence of temporally rewiring gene networks over more than 4000 genes during the life cycle of \textit{Drosophila melanogaster}, given longitudinal gene expression measurements and even when a single snapshot of such measurement resulted from each (time-specific) network is available. Our methods offer the first glimpse of time-specific snapshots and temporal evolution patterns of gene networks in a living organism during its full developmental course. The recovered networks with this unprecedented resolution chart the onset and duration of many gene interactions which are missed by typical static network analysis, and are suggestive of a wide array of other temporal behaviors of the gene network over time not noticed before.",202
http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0135v2,A state-space mixed membership blockmodel for dynamic network tomography,"Eric P. Xing, Wenjie Fu, Le Song",2008-12-31T21:27:33Z,2008,stat.ML,"In a dynamic social or biological environment, the interactions between the actors can undergo large and systematic changes. In this paper we propose a model-based approach to analyze what we will refer to as the dynamic tomography of such time-evolving networks. Our approach offers an intuitive but powerful tool to infer the semantic underpinnings of each actor, such as its social roles or biological functions, underlying the observed network topologies. Our model builds on earlier work on a mixed membership stochastic blockmodel for static networks, and the state-space model for tracking object trajectory. It overcomes a major limitation of many current network inference techniques, which assume that each actor plays a unique and invariant role that accounts for all its interactions with other actors; instead, our method models the role of each actor as a time-evolving mixed membership vector that allows actors to behave differently over time and carry out different roles/functions when interacting with different peers, which is closer to reality. We present an efficient algorithm for approximate inference and learning using our model; and we applied our model to analyze a social network between monks (i.e., the Sampson's network), a dynamic email communication network between the Enron employees, and a rewiring gene interaction network of fruit fly collected during its full life cycle. In all cases, our model reveals interesting patterns of the dynamic roles of the actors.",230
http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2196v1,The Role of Social Feedback in Financing of Technology Ventures,Aleksandar Bradic,2012-12-30T23:00:55Z,2012,q-fin.GN,"This research examines relationship between staging of Venture Capital (VC) investments and social feedback visible in publicly available data on the Web. We address the question of Venture Capital investment sensitivity to performance and prospects of new venture, given as likelihood of obtaining future financing, available exit options and duration between investment rounds. We argue that in the case of Internet companies, publicly available social feedback data, such as search trends and website traffic information, can be used as a proxy for some of company's internal metrics such as user base growth and product adoption. In order to answer questions of interest, we compile unique dataset consisting of detailed information about Venture Capital investments in the Internet Technology sector over the period from 2004 to 2012 and associated longitudinal search trend and website traffic data. By applying methods of survival analysis, we find that positive trends in search and website traffic volumes can lead to increased likelihood of future financing and shortening of duration between subsequent financing rounds. We also find evidence that social feedback only impacts company's ability to attract next round of financing or exit via IPO, while M&A exits seem relatively independent of such performance metrics and can occur at any stage of company development. Such findings provide strong evidence in support of learning hypothesis and suggest VC's ability to identify prospects of new venture early in it's development and allocate funding accordingly. Given research also provides methodological contributions to the problem of evaluating the prospects of new startup companies using only publicly available data, and as such should be of interest in applications such as new investment screening and industry-level assessments by analysts or policy makers.",280
http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0106v1,Mid-infrared imaging of 25 local AGN with VLT-VISIR,"Hannes Horst, Wolfgang J. Duschl, Poshak Gandhi, Alain Smette",2008-12-31T16:16:01Z,2008,astro-ph.GA,"Aims. High angular resolution N-band imaging is used to discern the torus of active galactic nuclei (AGN) from its environment in order to allow a comparison of its mid-infrared properties to the expectations of the unified scenario for AGN. Methods. We present VLT-VISIR images of 25 low-redshift AGN of different Seyfert types, as well as N-band SEDs of 20 of them. In addition, we compare our results for 19 of them to Spitzer IRS spectra. Results. We find that at a resolution of ~ 0.35"", all the nuclei of our observed sources are point-like, except for 2 objects whose extension is likely of instrumental origin. For 3 objects, however, we observed additional extended circumnuclear emission, even though our observational strategy was not designed to detect it. Comparison of the VISIR photometry and Spitzer spectrophotometry indicates that the latter is affected by extended emission in at least 7 out of 19 objects and the level of contamination is (0.20 ~ 0.85) * F_IRS. In particular, the 10 um silicate emission feature seen in the Spitzer spectra of 6 type I AGN, possibly 1 type II AGN and 2 LINERs, also probably originates not solely in the torus but also in extended regions. Conclusions. Our results generally agree with the expectations from the unified scenario, while the relative weakness of the silicate feature supports clumpy torus models. Our VISIR data indicate that, for low-redshift AGN, a large fraction of Spitzer IRS spectra are contaminated by extended emission close to the AGN.",249
http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00008v3,Deep Neural Networks to Enable Real-time Multimessenger Astrophysics,"Daniel George, E. A. Huerta",2016-12-30T21:00:02Z,2016,astro-ph.IM,"Gravitational wave astronomy has set in motion a scientific revolution. To further enhance the science reach of this emergent field, there is a pressing need to increase the depth and speed of the gravitational wave algorithms that have enabled these groundbreaking discoveries. To contribute to this effort, we introduce Deep Filtering, a new highly scalable method for end-to-end time-series signal processing, based on a system of two deep convolutional neural networks, which we designed for classification and regression to rapidly detect and estimate parameters of signals in highly noisy time-series data streams. We demonstrate a novel training scheme with gradually increasing noise levels, and a transfer learning procedure between the two networks. We showcase the application of this method for the detection and parameter estimation of gravitational waves from binary black hole mergers. Our results indicate that Deep Filtering significantly outperforms conventional machine learning techniques, achieves similar performance compared to matched-filtering while being several orders of magnitude faster thus allowing real-time processing of raw big data with minimal resources. More importantly, Deep Filtering extends the range of gravitational wave signals that can be detected with ground-based gravitational wave detectors. This framework leverages recent advances in artificial intelligence algorithms and emerging hardware architectures, such as deep-learning-optimized GPUs, to facilitate real-time searches of gravitational wave sources and their electromagnetic and astro-particle counterparts.",220
