id,title,authors,published,year,category,summary,count_words
http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6323v1,Localized Algorithm of Community Detection on Large-Scale Decentralized Social Networks,"Pili Hu, Wing Cheong Lau",2012-12-27T07:59:01Z,2012,cs.SI,"Despite the overwhelming success of the existing Social Networking Services (SNS), their centralized ownership and control have led to serious concerns in user privacy, censorship vulnerability and operational robustness of these services. To overcome these limitations, Distributed Social Networks (DSN) have recently been proposed and implemented. Under these new DSN architectures, no single party possesses the full knowledge of the entire social network. While this approach solves the above problems, the lack of global knowledge for the DSN nodes makes it much more challenging to support some common but critical SNS services like friends discovery and community detection. In this paper, we tackle the problem of community detection for a given user under the constraint of limited local topology information as imposed by common DSN architectures. By considering the Personalized Page Rank (PPR) approach as an ink spilling process, we justify its applicability for decentralized community detection using limited local topology information.Our proposed PPR-based solution has a wide range of applications such as friends recommendation, targeted advertisement, automated social relationship labeling and sybil defense. Using data collected from a large-scale SNS in practice, we demonstrate our adapted version of PPR can significantly outperform the basic PR as well as two other commonly used heuristics. The inclusion of a few manually labeled friends in the Escape Vector (EV) can boost the performance considerably (64.97% relative improvement in terms of Area Under the ROC Curve (AUC)).",234
http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.09158v1,The interplay between system identification and machine learning,Gianluigi Pillonetto,2016-12-29T14:32:51Z,2016,eess.SY,"Learning from examples is one of the key problems in science and engineering. It deals with function reconstruction from a finite set of direct and noisy samples. Regularization in reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces (RKHSs) is widely used to solve this task and includes powerful estimators such as regularization networks. Recent achievements include the proof of the statistical consistency of these kernel- based approaches. Parallel to this, many different system identification techniques have been developed but the interaction with machine learning does not appear so strong yet. One reason is that the RKHSs usually employed in machine learning do not embed the information available on dynamic systems, e.g. BIBO stability. In addition, in system identification the independent data assumptions routinely adopted in machine learning are never satisfied in practice. This paper provides new results which strengthen the connection between system identification and machine learning. Our starting point is the introduction of RKHSs of dynamic systems. They contain functionals over spaces defined by system inputs and allow to interpret system identification as learning from examples. In both linear and nonlinear settings, it is shown that this perspective permits to derive in a relatively simple way conditions on RKHS stability (i.e. the property of containing only BIBO stable systems or predictors), also facilitating the design of new kernels for system identification. Furthermore, we prove the convergence of the regularized estimator to the optimal predictor under conditions typical of dynamic systems.",237
http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6235v2,Real and Complex Monotone Communication Games,"Gesualdo Scutari, Francisco Facchinei, Jong-Shi Pang, Daniel P. Palomar",2012-12-26T19:43:46Z,2012,cs.GT,"Noncooperative game-theoretic tools have been increasingly used to study many important resource allocation problems in communications, networking, smart grids, and portfolio optimization. In this paper, we consider a general class of convex Nash Equilibrium Problems (NEPs), where each player aims to solve an arbitrary smooth convex optimization problem. Differently from most of current works, we do not assume any specific structure for the players' problems, and we allow the optimization variables of the players to be matrices in the complex domain. Our main contribution is the design of a novel class of distributed (asynchronous) best-response- algorithms suitable for solving the proposed NEPs, even in the presence of multiple solutions. The new methods, whose convergence analysis is based on Variational Inequality (VI) techniques, can select, among all the equilibria of a game, those that optimize a given performance criterion, at the cost of limited signaling among the players. This is a major departure from existing best-response algorithms, whose convergence conditions imply the uniqueness of the NE. Some of our results hinge on the use of VI problems directly in the complex domain; the study of these new kind of VIs also represents a noteworthy innovative contribution. We then apply the developed methods to solve some new generalizations of SISO and MIMO games in cognitive radios and femtocell systems, showing a considerable performance improvement over classical pure noncooperative schemes.",227
http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00082v1,A computational investigation of the relationships between single-neuron and network dynamics in the cerebral cortex,Stefano Cavallari,2016-12-31T09:57:03Z,2016,q-bio.NC,"Functions of brain areas in complex animals are believed to rely on the dynamics of networks of neurons rather than on single neurons. On the other hand, the network dynamics reflect and arise from the integration and coordination of the activity of populations of single neurons. Understanding how single-neurons and neural-circuits dynamics complement each other to produce brain functions is thus of paramount importance. LFPs and EEGs are good indicators of the dynamics of mesoscopic and macroscopic populations of neurons, while microscopic-level activities can be documented by measuring the membrane potential, the synaptic currents or the spiking activity of individual neurons. In this thesis we develop mathematical modelling and mathematical analysis tools that can help the interpretation of joint measures of neural activity at microscopic and mesoscopic or macroscopic scales. In particular, we develop network models of recurrent cortical circuits that can clarify the impact of several aspects of single-neuron (i.e., microscopic-level) dynamics on the activity of the whole neural population (as measured by LFP). We then develop statistical tools to characterize the relationship between the action potential firing of single neurons and mass signals. We apply these latter analysis techniques to joint recordings of the firing activity of individual cell-type identified neurons and mesoscopic (i.e., LFP) and macroscopic (i.e., EEG) signals in the mouse neocortex. We identified several general aspects of the relationship between cell-specific neural firing and mass circuit activity, providing for example general and robust mathematical rules which infer single-neuron firing activity from mass measures such as the LFP and the EEG.",255
http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4757v1,A Thoracic Mechanism of Mild Traumatic Brain Injury Due to Blast Pressure Waves,"Amy Courtney, Michael Courtney",2008-12-27T17:29:41Z,2008,physics.med-ph,"The mechanisms by which blast pressure waves cause mild to moderate traumatic brain injury (mTBI) are an open question. Possibilities include acceleration of the head, direct passage of the blast wave via the cranium, and propagation of the blast wave to the brain via a thoracic mechanism. The hypothesis that the blast pressure wave reaches the brain via a thoracic mechanism is considered in light of ballistic and blast pressure wave research. Ballistic pressure waves, caused by penetrating ballistic projectiles or ballistic impacts to body armor, can only reach the brain via an internal mechanism and have been shown to cause cerebral effects. Similar effects have been documented when a blast pressure wave has been applied to the whole body or focused on the thorax in animal models. While vagotomy reduces apnea and bradycardia due to ballistic or blast pressure waves, it does not eliminate neural damage in the brain, suggesting that the pressure wave directly affects the brain cells via a thoracic mechanism. An experiment is proposed which isolates the thoracic mechanism from cranial mechanisms of mTBI due to blast wave exposure. Results have implications for evaluating risk of mTBI due to blast exposure and for developing effective protection.",200
